After IPT1 (4/5/02)
--------------------

"Sorry for the total lack of updates lately. I've just been quite preoccupied with my level and other things like... NS playtesting!! I've got to tell you, 
if you had any doubts about the mod, you can just throw them down the drain now. And then turn on the garbage disposal. This thing is going to rock some 
serious ground when it's released. I can't even begin to explain some of the moments of pure awe I experienced while playing... The teamplay on the marine 
side is simply amazing. This isn't your fake "stick together to live" concept here... It is true, authentic teamplay. No one even thought once about their 
score... It's just amazing. " - Ken20Banks


"First off, Natural Selection is amazing. I've been fortunate enough to be a part of playtesting starting today, and let me tell you, this is well worth 
the wait. Check the Natural Selection forums or the IRC channel (#naturalselection on irc.gamesnet.net) for more info on this mod. I've said it before and 
I've said it again -- this is the real deal, kiddies. Well, and non-kiddies too. You get the idea." - KungFuSquirrel


"It's like crack, or black-crack if you buy vinyl.  If I hadn't had the responsibilities of school I would've slept less than Stal-Kalle last weekend.  
I played until my eyes hurt and I could not physically stand to be in front of a computer any longer.  I don't think this is just a result of it being 
new.  That is partially responsible indeed, but other games that I have got in the past never cause me to debate whether meals are really worth the trip 
down to the kitchen.  After it is released, I will be playing until I know every possible permutation of the game in existence.  You guys have really 
struck the right nail here." - Wurmspawn


"Natural Selection = pure swank. I can't think of a better way to put it.

	I hadn't had that much fun playing a mod since the original Frontline Force release and NS still has a lot of work to be done. I'm more excited now 
	having played it than I was before. Ns_caged is having a bit of a reshuffle to accommodate the ideas gleamed from seeing the basic game mechanics in 
	action and from the inspirational joys of Relic25's ns_bast and Merkaba's ns_hera."
	
	Must send out various pats of encouragement to: 
	
	Flayra and the NS team - For making this vision a wonderful (albeit slightly unbalanced and unfair) reality. Natural Selection is going to be great.
	
	Ken Banks - Space Station Nothing is awesome, the design, the light, the whole feel of the thing ... but I didn't realise how so until I wandered around the little test map with the nspt. I can't wait to see more! Ken you MUST finish this map.
	
	MonsE - He's just quite obviously the man.
	
	And anyone who shot, bit, spat, spiked, clawed or otherwise damaged me during the playtest :D" - Manah


"NS went WAY past my expectations.  It is so much better than I thought it was going to be.  The experiences are truly memorable, and the mouse interface 
is very clean and tight.  The atmosphere is superb, really puts you in the middle of things, and I think a lot people will like this game.  I can see how 
this could bring in all genre's of MP games (DM, Team play, RTS, strategy).  I think you've outdone yourselves J.  The only thing I would disagree with is 
that it's simple to learn.  It's simple to PICK UP, and just play.  But to master it I can tell will take some time (time I'm willing to 
commit--the game rocks)." - Badmofo


4/18/02 (or so)
---------------
"Natural Selection Mod for HL: It's like these assholes have some weird machine inside my brain that tells them what I want. I've talked about how a Command & 
Conquer: Renegade with just as much conquering but more commanding would bind me into servitude. Well, no need to wait for some jackhole to authorize innovation. 
Natural Selection is congealing my gaming fantasies. " - Tycho (Penny Arcade)

4/25/02
-------
"One of the coolest things about NS for me right now is that every single proper game I've played so far is just oozing with story-telling content. Every 
game is so memorable, and you just have to share it with people." - Ken20Banks

"I really truly believe that this thing is closer to a commercial game than an amateur community mod. In all ways: The quality of the work, the innovative 
and original gameplay, the mindset of the dev team, the way the community is handled, everything! Like I've said a million times over: You are going to 
be blown away when you get your hands on Natural Selection." - Ken20Banks

